---
eo_id: 1996-EO-027
number: '027'
year: 1996
is_emergency: false
date_signed: null
mayor: Giuliani
administration: Giuliani
admin_note: null
title: ''
source: wayback
source_pdf_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20150906061045/http://www.nyc.gov/html/records/pdf/executive_orders/1996EO027.PDF
pdf_path: pdfs/1996/1996-EO-027.pdf
supersedes: []
superseded_by: []
establishes_entity: null
in_effect: null
text_source: ocr
page_count: 2
---

DEP COUNSEL COLES
Fax i2]?-7S8e-3269
rab 2a
'9o
16:20
PLS /08
ne
ERECULTIVE ORDER NO. 27
February 26, 1996
a
TRANSPL OF AMBL
.
SERYVECE FUNCTIONS FROM THE EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE OF THE
SEY YORK CLPY JEPALTH AND HOSPITALS CORPGRATION TO THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT OF THE CIry OF SEW YORK, CONSISTENT WITH PHE TERMS
AND
CONDITIONS OF A MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
WHEREAS, the Now York City Health and Hospirals Corporaion (EEC) and
the City of New York nave entered imo af Zamorandum of Vnderstanding (MOU) dated January
Jo, OVC, containing the terms and conditions of a uanster of arnbulance and pre-haspitai
medical service Functions trom the Emergency Medical Service of HEC to the fire
emergensy
Department of be City of New York,
NEVA TIPERE BORE, by the power vested in me as the Mayor of the Civoof
Near York, itis hereby ordered
Section
|
The Sire Department of the City of New Yerk shall assume ambulance
and are-hospital emergency rieitical service functions from the Emergency Medicul Senice ae
BHC. consistem with the terms and conditions of the MOL! between HEC anc the City of New
York. on March 17, 1096, or as soon as pres feable thereafier as a transter of ambulances and pre
HAC to the
mounital emergency medical service P incticns from fe Dmergency Medical Service of
A
Sire Department of the City of New York may be effectuated,
Secuon 2
The Fire Depanment of the City of New York shall be the
coordinating agency forthe City af Now York for ai! pre-hospital services in the event of medical
ameruenerss

DEP COUNSEL COLES
Fax !212-7S8-3269
Feb 26 '96
17:58
P.02/02
Executive Order No. 96, dated December 7, 1977, Executive Order
Section 3.
ive Order No. 23, daied October 13, 1978, are hereby
No. 15, dated July 17, 1978, and Execui
repealcu.
5 Order shall take effect immediately, except that Executive Order
Sectian 4
No. oS. dated Deceniber 7, a7 shail remain in eect until such time as the Fire Department of
she functions of the Emergency Medical Service from HHC
ecoten " or this Onder
“Radolph Wi. Ginkiani
Mayor
saab
a
pur saan! to
