---
eo_id: 2012-EO-160
number: '160'
year: 2012
is_emergency: false
date_signed: '2012-04-09'
mayor: Bloomberg
administration: Bloomberg
admin_note: null
title: null
source: wayback
source_pdf_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20170204032035/http://www.nyc.gov/html/records/pdf/executive_orders/2012EO160.pdf
pdf_path: pdfs/2012/2012-EO-160.pdf
supersedes: []
superseded_by: []
establishes_entity: null
in_effect: null
text_source: born-digital
page_count: 4
text_quality: needs-review
dropped_header: ''
dropped_marks: []
---

EXECUTIVE ORDER No. 160

April 9, 2012

HHS ACCELERATOR

WHEREAS, the City of New York provides a wide range of health and human services, as well
as social and economic support services (“Client and Community Services”), to a diverse client
population throughout New York City; and

WHEREAS, among the Agencies providing such Client and Community Services are the
Administration for Children’s Services, Department for the Aging, Department of Correction,
Office of the Criminal Justice Coordinator, Department of Health and Mental Hygiene,
Department of Homeless Services, Department of Probation, Department of Housing
Preservation and Development, Human Resources Administration, Department of Small
Business Services, and Department of Youth and Community Development, referred to
collectively herein as “CCS Agencies”; and

WHEREAS, in furtherance of their mission to serve New Yorkers, CCS Agencies enter into
contracts with not-for-profit organizations and other private entities (“CCS Providers”) for the
provision of Client and Community Services, amounting to several billion dollars each year; and

WHEREAS, CCS Providers are vital to the well-being of millions of New Yorkers, especially
the City’s most vulnerable residents; and

WHEREAS, streamlining the procurement process for Client and Community Services through
greater centralization and innovative technology systems will further the effective and efficient
fulfillment of the CCS Agencies’ responsibilities, by reducing the administrative burdens on
CCS Providers, particularly duplicative document submissions, thus allowing them to focus on
their mission-driven activities and programs, while ensuring high quality services at fair and
reasonable prices and safeguarding the integrity of the procurement process; and

WHEREAS, a centralized, standardized, and transparent framework that organizes and defines
the functional elements of all types of Client and Community Services procured by New York
City will result in CCS Agencies being able to conduct more efficient and effective solicitations
for their programs;

NOW, THEREFORE, by the power vested in me as Mayor of the City of New York it is hereby
ordered:

Section 1. HHS Accelerator is hereby established to facilitate the central management of
the procurement process for Client and Community Services and contractual relationships with
current and prospective CCS Providers. HHS Accelerator shall be located within the Office of
the Mayor and shall be headed by a Director, who shall report to the Deputy Mayor for Health
and Human Services.

§2. The HHS Accelerator Director shall implement HHS Accelerator through the
following powers and duties:

a. One-Stop Electronic Document Management. The HHS Accelerator Director
shall design, construct and manage a document vault to provide a centralized,
web-based file repository for current and prospective CCS Providers to use for
“one-stop” electronic submission and storage of the organizational and
credentialing documents that CCS Agencies require for various phases of the
procurement and contract administration process. The HHS Accelerator Director
shall promulgate guidance on the form and content of those documents.

b. Streamlined Business Reviews and Contract Solicitation. The HHS Accelerator
Director shall create and maintain a centralized, electronic, and web-accessible
categorization system (taxonomy) for all City agencies. The taxonomy will
document and display in real time the various types of Client and Community
Services procured by CCS Agencies. The HHS Accelerator Director shall
establish a business review process for CCS Providers. The business review
process will consist of evaluative criteria for potential CCS Providers based on
the CCS agencies’ credentialing documents contained in the document vault, the
financial health and organizational capacity of the organization, relevant service
experience of the organization and the organization’s key staff, and demonstrated
ability of the organization to provide CCS services. Based on these criteria, and
in consultation with appropriate CCS Agencies, the HHS Accelerator Director
shall have the capability to prequalify CCS Providers, as appropriate, in one or
more service areas. The HHS Accelerator Director will also develop a web-based
system to manage procurements for Client and Community Services, building
upon the results of the business review process. Such a system will provide an
electronic mechanism to transmit solicitations for Client and Community Services
to qualified CCS Providers, accept proposals from CCS Providers, and facilitate
the evaluation of proposals.

c. Master Service Agreements. The HHS Accelerator Director is authorized to
establish prequalified lists for procurements by CCS Agencies pursuant to chapter
13 of the Charter and the rules of the Procurement Policy Board. In consultation
with the Mayor’s Office of Contract Services (MOCS) and subject to the approval
as to form by the Corporation Counsel, the HHS Accelerator Director shall
establish Standard Contracts and Master Service Agreements that may be used for

2

procurements by CCS Agencies. The Standard Contracts and Master Service
Agreements will standardize the core business terms for contracts with CCS
Providers. The HHS Accelerator Director may require individual providers to
agree to the terms of such Standard Contracts or Master Service Agreements as a
condition of eligibility for CCS Providers being placed on a prequalified list for
Client and Community Services procurements conducted by CCS Agencies.

d. Integrated Financial System and Standard Fiscal Manual. The HHS Accelerator
Director shall develop a centralized, web-based system to facilitate the financial
relationship between CCS Agencies and CCS providers, including contract budget
setting, budget modifications, invoicing, and payment. In collaboration with the
CCS Agencies and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), the HHS
Accelerator Director shall also develop and maintain a Standard Fiscal Manual for
the provision of Client and Community Services to standardize financial budget
formats, claiming and billing procedures, and administrative overhead rates to the
maximum feasible extent, so as to improve efficiency for both CCS Agencies and
CCS Providers.

e. Centralized Auditing. The HHS Accelerator Director shall work with CCS
Agencies, MOCS, Mayor’s Office of Operations, and other related Agencies to
centralize and streamline the financial and performance audit process for Client
and Community Services contracts.

f. Outreach and Technical Assistance. The HHS Accelerator Director shall conduct
outreach and provide technical assistance to CCS Providers. The assistance shall
facilitate CCS Providers' participation in the HHS Accelerator document
management, business review and integrated financial systems.

§3. Committees and Oversight Functions.

a. Steering Committee. The Deputy Mayor for Health and Human Services, or his
or her designee, shall chair a steering committee (“Executive Steering
Committee” or “ESC”), comprised of the heads of all of the CCS Agencies or
their designees; the heads of the relevant oversight agencies or their designees;
and the Commissioner of the Department of Information Technology and
Telecommunications (DOITT) or his or her designee. This ESC shall convene at
regular intervals and provide oversight and direction for the HHS Accelerator
system.

b. CCS Providers Task Force. Under the direction of the Deputy Mayor for Health
and Human Services, or his or her designee, the HHS Accelerator Director shall
also convene a task force of leaders of the nonprofit and CCS Provider
community, and cause such task force to meet at regular intervals in order to
facilitate ongoing input and dialogue as the HHS Accelerator system is developed
and becomes operational.

3

c. Oversight Functions. The HHS Accelerator Director shall provide oversight and
coordination of the development and management of the Client and Community
Services systems described herein. In addition to the specific duties and
responsibilities enumerated, the HHS Accelerator Director shall also have all the
powers, both direct and delegated, of an Agency Chief Contracting Officer
(ACCO), as set forth in the Procurement Policy Board (PPB) Rules and other
applicable laws and regulations.

§4. Alignment with Citywide IT Strategy. HHS Accelerator shall be aligned with the
Citywide Information Technology Strategy, including HHS Connect, as well as the security
requirements and enterprise architecture standards as set forth by DOITT.

§5. Cooperation and Assistance. The heads of all agencies shall cooperate with and assist
the HHS Accelerator Director in the implementation of HHS Accelerator, as needed.

§6. This Order shall take effect immediately.

Michael R. Bloomberg

Mayor

4
