---
eo_id: 2012-EO-161
number: '161'
year: 2012
is_emergency: false
date_signed: null
mayor: Bloomberg
administration: Bloomberg
admin_note: null
title: ''
source: wayback
source_pdf_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20170204032058/http://www.nyc.gov/html/records/pdf/executive_orders/2012EO161.pdf
pdf_path: pdfs/2012/2012-EO-161.pdf
supersedes: []
superseded_by: []
establishes_entity: null
in_effect: null
text_source: born-digital
page_count: 4
---

EXECUTIVE ORDER No. 161
April 23, 2012
CITYWIDE CONSOLIDATION OF FLEET OPERATIONS, FLEET MAINTENANCE AND
RELATED MATTERS

WHEREAS, the City operates a large fleet (“City Fleet”) of vehicles and motorized
equipment and an extensive network of repair, maintenance and fueling facilities and resources that
is critical to the daily provision of municipal services; and

WHEREAS, the City Fleet is currently managed in a decentralized manner across agencies
with limited sharing of mechanical and technical expertise, fleet resources, and agency facilities;
and

WHEREAS, individual City agencies have implemented a wide variety of best fleet
practices and innovations in the areas of repair and servicing, fueling, equipment specification,
environmental policy, and training, the citywide implementation of which would benefit all
agencies; and

WHEREAS, the consolidation and sharing of services offers the opportunity to achieve
significant cost savings and improvements in services; and

WHEREAS, New York City Charter section 827 directs that the Department of Citywide
Administrative Services ("DCAS") “acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, vehicles and other
automotive equipment for the use of city agencies; manage, maintain, store and operate a fleet of
motor vehicles; assign fleets to agencies in accordance with the direction of the mayor and ensure
the effective operation of all shops, yards, garages, fuel depots, and other facilities required for the
maintenance of fleets operated by agencies; and ensure the maintenance of records for all cityowned vehicles;”
NOW, THEREFORE, by the power vested in me as the Mayor of the City of New York, it is
hereby ordered:
Section 1. City Fleet Service Consolidation Plan. After appropriate consultation with
affected agencies, DCAS shall develop and execute a plan (“City Fleet Service Consolidation
Plan”) for the consolidation and sharing of fleet repair, maintenance, garage, and fueling resources

that will ensure that such shared services infrastructure satisfies both the general operational needs
of the City Fleet and the needs of each agency. Such plan may include the closing or re-purposing
of facilities. DCAS shall issue and administer all such rules, timelines, service level agreements,
staffing plans, inspection procedures, and policies as are necessary to the implementation and
successful operation of the City Fleet Service Consolidation Plan.
(a)
All agencies having repair and fueling infrastructure including but not limited to the
Police Department, the Fire Department, DCAS and the Departments of Correction,
Sanitation, Environmental Protection, Transportation, Parks and Recreation, and
Health and Mental Hygiene, shall be covered by the City Fleet Service Consolidation
Plan. DCAS shall take appropriate steps to facilitate the participation of the
Department of Education in such Plan.

(b)
The Police Department, the Department of Sanitation and DCAS (“Servicing
Agencies”) shall provide comprehensive fleet repair and maintenance services to
other agencies (“Client Agencies”). The Police Department shall provide these
services for in-house maintained light-duty vehicles. The Department of Sanitation
shall provide these services for in-house maintained heavy- and medium- duty
vehicles. DCAS shall manage and provide all contract repair services. DCAS may
however determine and provide in the City Fleet Service Consolidation Plan that
particular agencies shall continue to perform services with respect to their own
vehicles or the vehicles of other agencies in a different manner where such
performance best furthers an overall result that is efficient and cost-effective.

(c)
DCAS shall oversee the preparation of specifications for and the issuance of all
contracts Citywide for services, parts, and goods for the provision of City Fleet
services. Such contracts shall include, but not be limited to: contracts for the
provision of auto parts and inventory services; contracts for fueling; fleet repair
service contracts for comprehensive repair or component services such as engines,
body repair, or tire services; contracts for environmental services; and leasing
agreements.

(d)
In coordination with the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”), DCAS shall
monitor and authorize agency appointment personnel actions with respect to
Citywide fleet services and supervision of such services, including but not limited to
mechanical repair and garage support services.

§ 2.
Procurement of Vehicles and Equipment. DCAS shall plan and implement the
specification, procurement, salvage and auction of all fleet vehicles and motorized equipment on
behalf of the City and all agencies. Non-emergency equipment and fleet specifications shall be
prepared through a Citywide Specifications Unit to be established under the oversight of DCAS.

2

Specifications for specialized emergency services and fire equipment shall be prepared by the
emergency services agencies and submitted to DCAS for procurement. Any changes to such
specifications shall be made by DCAS only after consultation with affected emergency service
agencies. DCAS shall issue to each agency an authorized number of fleet vehicles (“approved fleet
count”) and shall ensure that the City fleet is assigned and deployed in an operationally and cost
effective manner. DCAS shall issue annually a plan for all fleet and equipment acquisitions
(“acquisitions plan”) and shall ensure the coordination of all City and agency fleet acquisition
resources.

§ 3.
Green Fleet Plan. DCAS shall develop and execute a plan (“Green Fleet Plan”) to
comply with all applicable laws and rules governing environmentally appropriate procurement of
City vehicles. This plan shall include a comprehensive approach to the implementation of a
citywide strategy for the use of biodiesel and electric vehicles by City agencies.

§4.
Monitoring of Fleet Operations Performance. DCAS shall track all City Fleet assets,
fueling, vehicle assignments, and maintenance activities using a comprehensive fleet database.
DCAS shall establish regular performance reporting in areas of fleet acquisitions, repair servicing,
fuel and emissions reductions, and proper fleet use.
§5.
 Use of City Vehicles. DCAS shall establish policies and procedures for all City
vehicle drivers and shall implement other appropriate best practices so as to ensure the safe, reliable
and proper use of City vehicles. DCAS will establish a comprehensive citywide program for
tracking and monitoring accidents involving city vehicles.

§6.
Citywide Chief Fleet Officer and Inter-Agency Working Group. The Commissioner
of DCAS shall appoint a Citywide Chief Fleet Officer who shall have responsibility for
implementing this Executive Order and overseeing the City Fleet, fueling and garage resources.

(a)
Within 30 days of the signing of this Executive Order, DCAS shall convene an interagency working group, to meet as necessary, which shall be chaired by the Citywide
Chief Fleet Officer. Such working group shall be comprised of representatives of
each Servicing Agency and appropriate Client Agencies, the Mayor’s Office of
Operations, the Office of Labor Relations, Law, OMB and any other City
representative(s) designated by the Deputy Mayor for Operations to coordinate the
implementation of this Executive Order and the operations of the City Fleet.
(b)
Agency Commissioners shall designate an agency representative as a liaison to work
with DCAS to ensure the execution of the obligations of this Executive Order.
§7.
Inter-Agency Transfers.
(a)
Each Client Agency shall, whenever necessary, work with OLR, OMB, DCAS, and
the Servicing Agencies to implement the transfer of staff and funds in furtherance of

3

the purposes of this Order and of the City Fleet Service Consolidation Plan. Such
implementation may include, but shall not be limited to, the transfer of necessary
employees from the Department of Education, with the consent of the Chancellor of
the Department of Education or his or her designee.

(b)
DCAS, the Client Agencies and the Servicing Agencies shall take all steps necessary
to ensure the transfer, including but not limited to any necessary transfer pursuant to
subdivision 2 or subdivision 6 of section 70 of the Civil Service Law, of employees
who perform the functions described in this Executive Order.

(c)
In accordance with sections 811 and 827 of the Charter, the Commissioner of DCAS
may exercise authority to direct transfers of agency employees between City mayoral
agencies in furtherance of the purposes of this Order and of the City Fleet Service
Consolidation Plan. Such transfers shall be consistent with subdivision 2 or
subdivision 6 of section 70 of the Civil Service Law, as applicable. Such transfers
may include arrangements for employees subject to pending disciplinary charges
and, in the case of transfers pursuant to subdivision 6 of such section, shall be
contingent upon agreement with the relevant employee organization.
§8.
Agency cooperation. All agency heads are directed to cooperate fully with DCAS in
implementing and complying with this Executive Order.
§ 9.
Supersession. Mayoral Directive 82-1 (March 26, 1982) ("Office of Fleet
Administration") is hereby REVOKED. Further, this Order shall supersede any provisions of any
other prior Orders or Directives that are inconsistent with the policy objectives set forth herein.
§10.
Effective Date. This Order shall take effect immediately.

Michael R. Bloomberg

Mayor

4
