---
eo_id: 2020-EO-055
number: '55'
year: 2020
is_emergency: false
date_signed: '2020-03-08'
mayor: de Blasio
administration: de Blasio
admin_note: null
title: BAN ON NON-ESSENTIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL IN RESPONSE TO THE CORONA VIRUS
source: wayback-deblasio
source_pdf_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20210121190704/https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/home/downloads/pdf/executive-orders/2020/eo-55.pdf
pdf_path: pdfs/2020/2020-EO-055.pdf
supersedes: []
superseded_by: []
establishes_entity: null
in_effect: null
text_source: born-digital
page_count: 1
text_quality: clean
dropped_header: ''
dropped_marks: []
---

THE CITY OF NEW YORK
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR
NEW YORK, N. Y. 10007
EXECUTIVE ORDER No. 55
March 8, 2020
BAN ON NON-ESSENTIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL IN RESPONSE TO THE CORONA VIRUS
WHEREAS, the Centers for Disease Control ("CDC") has found that Coronavirus
Disease 2019 (COVID-19) is present in at least 89 locations internationally; and
WHEREAS, to date, 12 New York City residents have been diagnosed with COVID-19;
and
WHEREAS, the City is dedicated to protecting the health and well-being of City
employees and the public; and
NOW, THEREFORE, by the power vested in me as Mayor of the City of New York, it is
hereby ordered that:
Section 1. Protection of City workforce. It is vital that City government continues to
function and serve its residents. Protecting the health of City employees and the public is critical
as health officials continue to aggressively combat the spread of COVID-19 in the City.
Section 2. Ban on non-essential foreign travel. Therefore, subject to Section 4, employees
of City agencies, as defined in section 1150 of the New York City Charter, shall be barred from
non-essential foreign travel for official City business. This travel ban is effective immediately
and will continue until further notice.
Section 3. Definition of non-essential foreign travel. Non-essential travel includes trips,
such as public school field trips, that do not have a public health or safety purpose and/or trips
that are not legally mandated.
Section 4. Limited Waiver Process. In limited cases, the Mayor, or his designee, may
grant a waiver permitting City employees to undertake non-essential foreign travel for official
City business.
Section 5. This Order shall take effect immediately. X
4  tf' /. _
_p';JJ.NL-
Bill de Blasio,
MAYOR
