---
eo_id: 1995-EO-025
number: '025'
year: 1995
is_emergency: false
date_signed: null
mayor: Giuliani
administration: Giuliani
admin_note: null
title: DESIGNATION OF THE RESPONSIBLE AGENCY FOR FRANCHISES TO BE AWARDED PURSUANT
  TO THE CITY CHARTER
source: wayback
source_pdf_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20150906063218/http://www.nyc.gov/html/records/pdf/executive_orders/1995EO025.PDF
pdf_path: pdfs/1995/1995-EO-025.pdf
supersedes: []
superseded_by: []
establishes_entity: null
in_effect: null
text_source: ocr
page_count: 2
text_quality: minor-noise
dropped_header: 'Op,

  yee

  eee

  Saya.

  t

  ¥

  +

  o

  he

  vy'
dropped_marks: []
---

THE City oF NEw YorRK
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR
New York, N.Y. 10007
EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 25
August Q3
,
1995
DESIGNATION OF THE RESPONSIBLE AGENCY FOR FRANCHISES
TO BE AWARDED PURSUANT TO THE CITY CHARTER
By the power vested in me as Mayor of the City of New
York, it is hereby ordered:
Section 1:
Pursuant to § § 363 and 378 of the New York
City Charter:
(a)
The Department of Transportation is designated the
responsible agency for the following types of franchises --
(1)
Bus lines,
(2)
Bus stop shelters,
(3)
Electric power distribution systems,
(4)
Tramways,
(5)
Below
grade
passenger
railroad tracks
and
tunnels,
(6)
Self-cleaning automatic public toilets,
(7)
Newsstand structures,
(8)
Any combination of the types of franchises
enumerated in paragraphs one through seven of
this subdivision.

Franchise structures authorized pursuant to paragraphs
one through eight of this subdivision may include additional public
service structures such as newspaper and periodical dispensers,
recycling or litter bins, computer terminals which provide access
to government or commercial activity, and other similar structures
affixed to or adjacent thereto.
(b)
The Department of Business Services is designated
the responsible agency for the following types of franchises ~-
(1)
Railroad freight and. shipping lines,
(2)
Refrigeration distribution systems.
Section 2:
Pursuant to Chapter 48 of the New York City
Charter,
the
Department
of
Information
Technology
and
Telecommunications shall be the responsible agency for franchises
relating to telecommunications as defined in that Chapter.
Section 3:
Executive Order No.
44 of 1992 is hereby
repealed.
Section 4:
This Order shall take effect immediately.
Rudolph i. Giuliani
Mayor
