---
eo_id: 2017-EO-027
number: '27'
year: 2017
is_emergency: false
date_signed: '2017-06-16'
mayor: de Blasio
administration: de Blasio
admin_note: null
title: HHS ACCELERATOR
source: wayback-deblasio
source_pdf_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20171011152416/http://www1.nyc.gov//assets/home/downloads/pdf/executive-orders/2017/eo_27.pdf
pdf_path: pdfs/2017/2017-EO-027.pdf
supersedes: []
superseded_by: []
establishes_entity: null
in_effect: null
text_source: ocr
page_count: 4
text_quality: clean
dropped_header: ''
dropped_marks: []
---

THe City oF New York
OFFice oF THE MAYOR
New York, N.Y. 10007
EXECUTIVE ORDER No. 27
June 16, 2017
HHS ACCELERATOR
WHEREAS, the City of New York provides a wide range of health and human services, as well
as social and economic support services (“Client and Community Services”), to a diverse client
population throughout New York City; and
WHEREAS, among the Agencies providing such Client and Community Services are the
Administration for Children’s Services, Department for the Aging, Department of Correction,
Mayor's Office of Criminal Justice, Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, Department of
Probation, Department of Housing Preservation and Development, Department of Small
Business Services, Department of Homeless Services, Department of Youth and Community
Development, and Department of Social Services, acting through the Human Resources
Administration, referred to collectively herein as “CCS Agencies”; and
WHEREAS, in furtherance of their mission to serve New Yorkers, CCS Agencies enter into
contracts with not-for-profit organizations and other private entities (“CCS Providers”) for the
provision of Client and Community Services, amounting to several billion dollars each year; and
WHEREAS, CCS Providers are vital to the well-being of millions of New Yorkers, especially
the City’s most vulnerable residents; and
WHEREAS, streamlining the procurement process for Client and Community Services through
greater centralization and innovative technology systems has furthered the effective and efficient
fulfillment of the CCS Agencies’ responsibilities, by reducing the administrative burdens on
CCS Providers, particularly duplicative document submissions, thus allowing them to focus on
their mission-driven activities and programs, while ensuring high quality services at fair and
reasonable prices and safeguarding the integrity of the procurement process; and
WHEREAS, a centralized, standardized, and transparent framework that organizes and defines
the functional elements of all types of Client and Community Services procured by New York
City has resulted in CCS Agencies being able to conduct more efficient and effective
solicitations for their programs; and
WHEREAS, HHS Accelerator was established by Executive Order No. 160 on April 9, 2012,
with the goal of streamlining the procurement process for client and community services through
greater centralization and innovative technology systems; and

WHEREAS, in the interest of continuing the effective and efficient functioning of HHS
Accelerator, it has been determined that it should be located within the Mayor’s Office of
Contract Services and managed by the Director of such office; and
WHEREAS, to implement and support this management change, employees performing certain
functions should be transferred to the Mayor’s Office of Contract Services;
NOW, THEREFORE, by the power vested in me as Mayor of the City of New York, it is hereby
ordered:
Section 1, HHS Accelerator was established by Executive Order No. 160, dated April 9,
2012, to facilitate the central management of the procurement process for Client and Community
Services and contractual relationships with current and prospective CCS Providers. HHS
Accelerator shall be located within the Mayor’s Office of Contract Services (*MOCS”) and shall
be headed by the Director of the Mayor's Office of Contract Services (“Director”), who shall
report to the First Deputy Mayor. Previous actions taken pursuant to Executive Order No. 160,
dated April 9, 2012, are hereby ratified and continued, pending further actions taken pursuant to
this Order.
§ 2. The Director shall implement HHS Accelerator through the following powers and
duties:
a. One-Stop Electronic Document Management. The Director shall design,
construct and manage a document vault to provide a centralized, web-based file
repository for current and prospective CCS Providers to use for “one-stop”
electronic submission and storage of the organizational and credentialing
documents that CCS Agencies require for various phases of the procurement and
contract administration process. The Director shall promulgate guidance on the
form and content of those documents.
b. Streamlined Business Reviews and Contract Solicitation. The Director shall
create and maintain a centralized, electronic, and web-accessible categorization
system (taxonomy) for all City agencies. The taxonomy will document and
display in real time the various types of Client and Community Services procured
by CCS Agencies. The Director shall establish a business review process for CCS
Providers. The business review process will consist of evaluative criteria for
potential CCS Providers based on the CCS agencies’ credentialing documents
contained in the document vault, the financial health and organizational capacity
of the organization, relevant service experience of the organization and the
organization’s key staff, and demonstrated ability of the organization to provide
CCS services. Based on these criteria, and in consultation with appropriate CCS
Agencies, the Director shalll have the capability to prequalify CCS Providers, as
appropriate, in one or more service areas. The Director will also develop a webbased system to manage procurements for Client and Community Services,
building upon the results of the business review process. Such a system will
provide an electronic mechanism to transmit solicitations for Client and
Community Services to qualified CCS Providers, accept proposals from CCS
Providers, and facilitate the evaluation of proposals.

c. Master Service Agreements. The Director is authorized to establish and
maintain prequalified lists for procurements by CCS Agencies pursuant to chapter
13 of the Charter and the rules of the Procurement Policy Board. Subject to the
approval as to form by the Corporation Counsel, the Director shall establish and
maintain Standard Contracts and Master Service Agreements that may be used for
procurements by CCS Agencies to standardize the core business terms for
contracts with CCS Providers. The Director may require individual providers to
agree to the terms of such Standard Contracts or Master Service Agreements as a
condition of eligibility for CCS Providers being placed on a prequalified list for
Client and Community Services procurements conducted by CCS Agencies.
d, Integrated Financial System and Standard Fiscal Manual. The Director shall
develop a centralized, web-based system to facilitate the financial relationship
between CCS Agencies and CCS providers, including contract budget setting,
budget modifications, invoicing, and payment. In collaboration with the CCS
Agencies and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), the Director shall
also develop and maintain a Standard Fiscal Manual for the provision of Client
and Community Services to standardize financial budget formats, claiming and
billing procedures, and administrative overhead rates to the maximum feasible
extent, so as to improve efficiency for both CCS Agencies and CCS Providers.
e. Centralized Auditing. The Director shall work with CCS Agencies, Mayor’s
Office of Operations, and other related Agencies to centralize and streamline the
financial and performance audit process for Client and Community Services
contracts.
f. Outreach and Technical Assistance. The Director shall conduct outreach and
provide technical assistance to CCS Providers. The assistance shall facilitate CCS
Providers’ participation in the HHS Accelerator document management, business
review and integrated financial systems.
§3. Task Force and Oversight Functions.
a. CCS Providers Task Force. Under the direction of the First Deputy Mayor, or
his or her designee, the Director shall also convene a task force of leaders of the
nonprofit and CCS Provider community, and cause such task force to meet at
regular intervals in order to facilitate ongoing input and dialogue with respect to
the operation of the HHS Accelerator system.
b. Oversight Functions. The Director shall provide oversight and coordination of
the development and management of the Client and Community Services systems
described herein. In addition to the specific duties and responsibilities
enumerated, the Director shall also have the authority to make prequalification
determinations with respect to CCS Providers as set forth in the Procurement
Policy Board (PPB) Rules and other applicable laws and regulations.
§ 4. Functional Transfer. In furtherance of the functional transfer necessitated by the
location of HHS Accelerator within MOCS, employees substantially engaged in (i) procurement
oversight and support, consisting of reviews related to contracting and procurement for Client

and Community Services and related oversight and coordination, (ji) the maintenance and
support of the web-based technology systems described in this Executive Order and related
technical support to agencies and providers, or (iii) any functions ancillary to the functions
previously described, shall be transferred from the City Department of Social Services, acting
through the Human Resources Administration, to MOCS, in accordance with Civil Service Law
§ 70(2), on July 9, 2017, or as soon as practicable thereafter
as a functional transfer may be
effectuated. Employees who are subject to pending disciplinary charges on the date of the
functional transfer, or against whom a disciplinary penalty has been assessed but not yet served
or paid on or prior to such date, shall be retained in their current employment until the resolution
of the adjudicative or administrative proceedings and until any outstanding disciplinary penalty
has been served or paid.
§ 5. Cooperation and Assistance, The heads of all agencies shall cooperate with and
assist the Director in the implementation of HHS Accelerator, as needed.
§ 6. Prior Order Revoked. Executive Order No. 160, dated April 9, 2012, is hereby
revoked, Any reference to HHS Accelerator, the HHS Accelerator Director or any Executive
Order relating to HHS Accelerator contained in any other laws, regulations or Executive Orders
are deemed to refer to the HHS Accelerator program within MOCS, the Director and this
Executive Order, respectively.
§ 7. Prior Order Amended. Paragraphs (xi) and (xii) of subdivision b of Section 2 of
Executive Order No. 121, dated August 11, 2008, are amended, and a new paragraph (xiii) is
added, to read as follows:
(xi)
perform all functions and make all determinations assigned to the Mayor’s Office
of Contract Services pursuant to Executive Order No. 72, dated October 6, 2005, with regard to
equal access to health insurance coverage for the domestic partners of employees of City vendors
and other businesses;
(xii) _ perform all reviews and make all determinations assigned to the Mayor’s Office
of Contract Services pursuant to Executive Order No. 102, dated July 18, 2007, with regard to
prevailing wage and living wage requirements in City contracts; and
(xiii)
implement HHS Accelerator, as established by Executive Order No. 27, dated
June 16, 2017, including performing all functions and duties set forth in such Order.
§ 8. This Order shall take effect on July 9, 2017, or as soon as practicable thereafter as a
functional transfer may be effectuated, provided that effective immediately, all actions necessary
in furtherance of the timely implementation of this Order are hereby authorized and directed.
bho fe
Bill de Blasio
MAYOR
